# CSE445
Stroke is described as the rapid demise of brain cells due to the absence of oxygen, and it might occasionally be asymptomatic. It occurs when a blood clot or brain bleeding occurs, permanently harming the body. With 450–750 strokes per 155,000 people and 16.5 million new acute strokes each year, stroke is the 2nd most significant cause of death and adult disability globally [1]. According to the World Health Organization (WHO) estimates, 15.3 million people experience strokes annually, with one victim passing away every 4.0 to 5.0 minutes. According to the limited information that is currently available, non-communicable diseases (NCDs), such as cancer, stroke, diabetes, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, and heart disease, account for about 0.51 of deaths in Bangladesh [2]. Stroke can be classified into two categories: (1) Ischemic and (2) Hemorrhagic. An Ischemic stroke can be known as a blocked artery, and a Haemorrhagic stroke is a burst out of a blood vessel.[3] Many people have a short disruption of blood flow to their brain, known as a transient ischemic attack (TIA) that does not cause any lifelong symptoms to the body. A stroke can also be known as a brain attack that can happen in two possible ways: one blocks the arteries, and the other one is the arteries ruptured, which occurs when blood supplies are blocked to the brain, or a blood vessel in the brain bursts. A stroke can lead to long-term brain damage and last as a disability or possibly to death. Strokes can be measured by physical examination, and examination of brain scan pictures are typically used to identify strokes. Stroke can be prevented by living a healthy, balanced lifestyle that excludes harmful habits like smoking and drinking, maintaining a healthy body mass index (BMI), average blood glucose levels, and great heart and kidney function. In this work to identify strokes, we will use explainable AI and various machine-learning approaches. We will use a Kaggle-sourced dataset on strokes. We will substitute the mean value of each feature for some of the features with several missing values. We will use KNN, SVM, and random forest in this study, three machine learning-based classification techniques.
